Rettelse PR (#62)
MrLongbottom/P9-Rapport: sections/language_model.tex

> \section{Language model}\label{sec:lm}

Author: I think should maybe be moved to after LDA and PR.
However there is one problem with another suggested change that I have, with lda-ir using equation 2 it might make it difficult to move lda-ir to the lda section, if equation 2 has not been used yet.

> \section{Language model}\label{sec:lm}

Author: Seems like we're missing an intro saying 'now we will go over some of the theory behind the methods that we will be using.'
maybe recombine LDA PR and LM into one section and have them be subsections.

> \section{Language model}\label{sec:lm}

Author: this section needs citeauthors.

The \gls{lda} model gets poor document retrieval performance when not used in combination with another model\cite{yang2009topic}.

> In \cite{yang2009topic}, they describe various combinations of \gls{lda} and other models. 

Reviewer: skal der være komma imellem cite og citeauthor

> The \acrlong{lm} they describe is similar to a query likelihood model, which generates a probability of how likely a given document $d$ produces a given query $q$.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The \acrlong{lm} they describe is similar to a query likelihood model, which generates a probability of how likely a given query $q$ is generated by a document $d$.
```

> The language model they describe is similar to a query likelihood model, which generates a probability of how likely a given document $d$ produces a given query $q$.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The \gls{lm} they describe is similar to a query likelihood model, which generates a probability of how likely a given document $d$ produces a given query $q$.
```

Author: ```suggestion
The \acrlong{lm} they describe is similar to a query likelihood model, which generates a probability of how likely a given document $d$ produces a given query $q$.
```

> To calculate this probability, they find the likelihood for each word in the query by using this function:

Author: ```suggestion
To calculate this probability, they find the likelihood for each word in the query by using the following equation:
```

\begin{equation}\label{eq:word_prob}
	P(w|d) = \frac{N_d}{N_d + \lambda} \cdot \frac{tf(w,d)}{N_d} + (1 - \frac{N_d}{N_d + \lambda}) \cdot \frac{tf(w,D)}{N_D}
\end{equation}

where $N_d$ is the number of word tokens in document $d$ and $tf(w,d)$ is the word frequency of word $w$ in document $d$. Likewise, $N_D$ is the total number of word tokens in the corpus $D$, and $tf(w,D)$ is the word frequency of word $w$ in the whole corpus $D$. $\lambda$ is a Dirichlet smoothing factor and is set to the average document length.
$ \frac{N_d}{N_d + \lambda} $ describes a relative term which is weighted based on $ \lambda $. If $N_d > \lambda$ the value is closer to 1 and if $ N_d < \lambda $ the value is closer to 0.
$ \frac{tf(w,d)}{N_d} $ and $\frac{tf(w,D)}{N_D}$ are the maximum likelihood estimate of $w$ appearing in a document $d$ or the corpus $D$, respectively.
\autoref{eq:word_prob} calculates the relative maximum likelihood for the word being in $ d $ and $ D $, and weighs these terms based on the document length $N_d$ compared to $\lambda$, with smaller documents weighing the corpus likelihood higher, and bigger documents weighing the document likelihood higher.

> To calculate this for a given query, we take the product of the word likelihood to get the probability for $q$.

Author: are they word likelihoods or just word poribabilities? because that may need to be corrected in this section..
